In this example we are going
to talk about implementing
a control value accessor
control inside of a form.
So, one of the things that I love
about front end Masters is that,
I get to have a lot of really
interesting interactions with students
even in a live workshop format.
That individuals are able
to ask questions and
a lot of times I'm able to respond to them
in real time, which is very, very cool.
And this one in particular was
requested by one of my friends,
he asked me on Twitter could
you show a control value
accessor example, and so
I am happy to comply.
So what we have here is a custom
input that we want to create,
so the idea behind a control
value accessor is that,
you're taking a component,
that ideally you can
interact with in some way,
and you're making it compliant or
you're essentially fitting
it in such a way that
it can fit inside of
a standard angular form.
And so a good example of this might
be if you had a jQuery component
that you were wrapping that you
wanted to just be able to drop in,
and bind to it using ngmodel
into a data binding.
Well you can absolutely do that.
There's just a little bit of a layer
that you need to implement in order for
that to work.
And so
what I have here is a custom input and
what I'm doing is inside of this,
I'm generating a random
key on an interval.
So I thought about like, what would be
an example that might be plausible to
anchor this into something
that would be believable,
make sense in that you
might actually use it.
And so one of the things that I
deal with frequently is that,
I'm trying to access something and
have two factor authentication setup.
And I have to open up an app,
and I get a random sequence of
characters that I need to
then input into the field.
So I'm just imagining a scenario
where you are entering in a form.
And within that you're
randomly generating a key.
So, what I wanna do is take
this particular component,
and I want to make it compliant
with how a form control would work.
And so here you can see that the key
itself is, I believe every five
seconds it's shifting but outside of this,
that nothing is happening.
So by the time we finish this and
we wire this up,
that when this changes here
via ngmodel into a binding,
it will update the outside world.
So if we look real quick here,
we have our custom control.
The name is the key, so this is how
we're tracing this out down here, and
we're passing in the current key, and
what we need is, when this changes
through the ng model kind of channel,
we want to update it down here.
So within our custom control component,
we have a pretty basic component.
I have the key which is what we
are binding to, I have a source stream and
all this is doing is,
it's firing after the first second and
then five seconds after that, and
I've also defined a sub property,
the reason being is on inch on a knit.
I am going to subscribe to
the sources stream, aka timer,
aka ticker, and
I'm just gonna call generate key.
When you call subscribe it returns,
see if they'll tell me here,
I won't know exactly what to say.
So it's a subscription object,
which from here,
then on ngOnDestroy,
being called this.sub.unsubscribe.
So this is just us being good
stewards over our code, and so
that's why I have the sub property here so
that when I subscribe,
I can store a reference
to that subscription and
then unsubscribe when this
is removed off the page.
Now this generate method is,
document driven development or
Stack Overflow Driven Development sod,
in that I basically said,
how do I generate a random character
of strings, and here we are.
So Math.random().toString(36).substr(2,
8).
And so it's good enough,
I don't really care what's in here,
and then I have a method generate key,
which then sets the key
property to whatever is
returned from this .generate.
So, a pretty cool component but it is
certainly not form control compliant.
And so what we're going to do is,
we are going to implement
one more interface, and
this interface is going to be
the value control accessor,
I mean just double check my
notes to make sure I do not go
off the rails here, and
get busted for fake news it's
actually control value accessor,
there we go, aright?
And notice here, this is very upset
because we are missing some properties.
So, right value, register on change,
register on touch.
And so we'll go down at the bottom and
we are going to start to
implement this interface.
So the first one we're
gonna do is write value.
And this is going to take,
in this case I'm
going to update this to take a string, and
we're going to say,
this.key = key, all right?
And so when this loads, and
this initial load is that
it will write the value to the internal
key property, so that it is updated.
And from here,
we need to register onChange.
And all we're gonna do here is we're
just gonna say, this.onChange = fn.
And so
this is just a convenient method here,
but we will fix this in just a moment.
So registerOnTouched, and
this.OnTouch = function
And so now it's saying well,
where is this?
And so what we're gonna do here,
is we're going to define onChange,
Any, and
we are basically decide
this to be a no op, so
we're just going with
the absolute simplest
form of this that we can so,
no op, here we go.
And we should be compliant now,
we have implemented the control
value accessor interface.
But what we also need to do is,
we need to update
the metadata to define this
as a control value accessor.
So we are going to go providers,
and within this,
we're going to define a new
object which is going
to go provide, and so
Engie value accessor and
we're going to go use existing,
and forward ref, and
then from here,
we're just going to pass in or
reference the custom control component.
And then we're going to
say that we are going
to allow multi: true, all right?
Let's save this, and
let's just take a peek at our code and
see what this looks like.
So if I refresh this, yes if you saw real
quick just dial in current key boom,
so just for
a second we were able to write that value,
and then the key cycle took over.
So we need to wire this
up a little better.
So back into our code.
We can go into our generate key.
And what we're going to do is we are going
to update this to call this onChange.
We're just gonna pass in this key.
There we go.
Now, if we come back you'll
notice here that when
it changes, it's also changing down here.
Very cool, and if I click,
I can kind of subvert this and
we can do it faster than the cycle if you
wanted to manually generate a new key.
We could do that.
Now, one thing that I want to just call
out here is if we look over this element.
You'll notice here that even
though I've touched it,
here like It's still
registering as untouched.
And so if you want to hook into the
validation portions of the form control,
then we need to add in
some additional code.
So let's go back into our example, and
from here we are going to go
into the template itself,
and we're going to do a couple of things.
So, on the input itself,
I'm going to add in,
I'm going to block, bind, to blur.
And from here,
I'm just going to call onTouch.
And what I'm also going
to do is on the button,
I'm going to bind to the scope mouse out.
And we're also going to call onTouch,
okay.
And now, if we come back to our example,
I'm gonna pull this back up and
let me inspect this.
So it's untouched here.
And when I come over here,
and I mouse over,
you saw that the minute that I did that,
that the untouched property
immediately came off so,
we'll do this one more time so
you'll see here nguntouched and
then I'll go here and it's gone.
So now it's ngtouch and so
this is how we hook in to,
not only communicating the value but
the validity and
the state of the control itself and so
just to reiterate or review the code.
Very quickly.
What we've done is the first step,
I believe is to implement your
control value accessor, and
then make it compliant.
And so you have really three
things you need to do.
Write value, so that allows you
to write the initial value.
This is pretty simple.
And then from here, register on changes,
register on touched and
I basically just put a no op in there and
that is good enough.
And then from here,
when you wanna update, the value itself
you just call this onChange, and
if you want to set it to touch,
or that has been touched,
you can then just call onTouch.
And so what we've done at this point is we
have created a brand new form control.
But one more thing, so
I just totally pulled the Steve Jobs here.
Notice that when I type,
nothing is happening, it's not reflecting.
So thinking cap on, how would we fix this?
Well, we would need to
take whatever we type and
push that into an on changes event.
So let's go back to our code real
quick and let's tighten this up.
And underneath of this,
we're just going to go ngModelChange.
And we're going to call onChange,
we're just going to pass in the event,
so let me just double check my
spelling here, ng model change.
And we're just calling on change yet
again, back here.
And now when I type this in,
what I would expect is that
it updates down here as well.
So you just need to ask yourself,
where do I want to surface,
a meaningful change to the model and
then call on change.
So in this case we are doing
it in a couple of places.
So, when you type it directly in,
you need to capture that on change.
You can also do on touch to set it to
touched, when we click the button we're
generating the key but we're also
updating it by calling this on change and
so, there you go my friend this is how you
do a control value accessor in Angular